CONTRIBUTING.rst, before:

How To Contribute
=================

Every open source project lives from the generous help by contributors that sacrifice their time and structlog is no different.

To make participation as pleasant as possible, this project adheres to the `Code of Conduct`_ by the Python Software Foundation.

Here are a few hints and rules to get you started:

- Add yourself to the AUTHORS.rst_ file in an alphabetical fashion.
  Every contribution is valuable and shall be credited.
- If your change is noteworthy, add an entry to the changelog_.
- No contribution is too small; please submit as many fixes for typos and grammar bloopers as you can!
- Don’t *ever* break backward compatibility.
  Although structlog follows `semantic versioning`_, it is an infrastructure people rely on and which means it
  mustn’t ever break when updating.
  If it ever *has* to happen for higher reasons, structlog will follow the proven procedures_ of the Twisted project.
- *Always* add tests and docs for your code.
  This is a hard rule; patches with missing tests or documentation won’t be merged – if a feature is not tested or documented, it doesn’t exist.
- Obey `PEP 8`_ and `PEP 257`_.
  Twisted-specific modules use CamelCase.
- Write `good commit messages`_.
- Ideally, squash_ your commits, i.e. make your pull requests just one commit.

.. note::
   If you have something great but aren’t sure whether it adheres -- or even can adhere -- to the rules above: **please submit a pull request anyway**!

   In the best case, we can mold it into something, in the worst case the pull request gets politely closed.
   There’s absolutely nothing to fear.

Thank you for considering to contribute to structlog!
If you have any question or concerns, feel free to reach out to me -- there is also a ``#structlog`` channel on freenode_.


.. _squash: http://gitready.com/advanced/2009/02/10/squashing-commits-with-rebase.html
.. _`PEP 8`: http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/
.. _`PEP 257`: http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/
.. _`good commit messages`: http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html
.. _`Code of Conduct`: http://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/
.. _changelog: https://github.com/hynek/structlog/blob/master/docs/changelog.rst
.. _AUTHORS.rst: https://github.com/hynek/structlog/blob/master/AUTHORS.rst
.. _procedures: http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/wiki/CompatibilityPolicy
.. _`semantic versioning`: http://semver.org
.. _`freenode`: http://freenode.net

Commit message:

Drop SemVer
Just don't break things.

CONTRIBUTING.rst, after:

How To Contribute
=================

Every open source project lives from the generous help by contributors that sacrifice their time and structlog is no different.

To make participation as pleasant as possible, this project adheres to the `Code of Conduct`_ by the Python Software Foundation.

Here are a few hints and rules to get you started:

- Add yourself to the AUTHORS.rst_ file in an alphabetical fashion.
  Every contribution is valuable and shall be credited.
- If your change is noteworthy, add an entry to the changelog_.
- No contribution is too small; please submit as many fixes for typos and grammar bloopers as you can!
- Don’t *ever* break backward compatibility.
  ``structlog`` is an infrastructure library people rely on; therefore highest care must be put into avoiding breakage on updates.
  If it ever *has* to happen for higher reasons, structlog will follow the proven procedures_ of the Twisted project.
- *Always* add tests and docs for your code.
  This is a hard rule; patches with missing tests or documentation won’t be merged – if a feature is not tested or documented, it doesn’t exist.
- Obey `PEP 8`_ and `PEP 257`_.
  Twisted-specific modules use CamelCase.
- Write `good commit messages`_.
- Ideally, squash_ your commits, i.e. make your pull requests just one commit.

.. note::
   If you have something great but aren’t sure whether it adheres -- or even can adhere -- to the rules above: **please submit a pull request anyway**!

   In the best case, we can mold it into something, in the worst case the pull request gets politely closed.
   There’s absolutely nothing to fear.

Thank you for considering to contribute to structlog!
If you have any question or concerns, feel free to reach out to me -- there is also a ``#structlog`` channel on freenode_.


.. _squash: http://gitready.com/advanced/2009/02/10/squashing-commits-with-rebase.html
.. _`PEP 8`: http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/
.. _`PEP 257`: http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/
.. _`good commit messages`: http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html
.. _`Code of Conduct`: http://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/
.. _changelog: https://github.com/hynek/structlog/blob/master/docs/changelog.rst
.. _AUTHORS.rst: https://github.com/hynek/structlog/blob/master/AUTHORS.rst
.. _procedures: http://twistedmatrix.com/trac/wiki/CompatibilityPolicy
.. _`freenode`: http://freenode.net
