docs/index.rst, before:

Structured Logging for Python
=============================

Release v\ |version| (:doc:`What's new? <changelog>`).

.. include:: intro.rst
   :start-after: :orphan:

The Pitch
---------

structlog makes structured logging with *incremental context building* and *arbitrary formatting* as easy as:

.. doctest::

   >>> from structlog import get_logger
   >>> log = get_logger()
   >>> log = log.bind(user='anonymous', some_key=23)
   >>> log = log.bind(user='hynek', another_key=42)
   >>> log.info('user.logged_in', happy=True)
   some_key=23 user='hynek' another_key=42 happy=True event='user.logged_in'


For…

- …reasons why structured logging in general and structlog in particular are the way to go, consult :doc:`why`.
- …more realistic examples, peek into  :doc:`examples`.
- …getting started right away, jump straight into :doc:`getting-started`.

Since structlog avoids monkey-patching and events are fully free-form, you can start using it **today**!

User's Guide
------------

Basics
^^^^^^

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   why
   getting-started
   loggers
   configuration
   thread-local
   processors
   examples


Integration with Existing Systems
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

structlog can be used immediately with any existing logger.
However it comes with special wrappers for the Python standard library and Twisted that are optimized for their respective underlying loggers and contain less magic.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   standard-library
   twisted
   logging-best-practices


Advanced Topics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   custom-wrappers
   performance


Project Information
-------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   contributing
   license
   changelog


API Reference
-------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 4

   api


Indices and tables
==================

- :ref:`genindex`
- :ref:`modindex`
- :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Clarify pitch does not used stdlib logging

docs/index.rst, after:

Structured Logging for Python
=============================

Release v\ |version| (:doc:`What's new? <changelog>`).

.. include:: intro.rst
   :start-after: :orphan:

The Pitch
---------

structlog makes structured logging with *incremental context building* and *arbitrary formatting* as easy as:

.. doctest::

   >>> from structlog import get_logger
   >>> log = get_logger()
   >>> log = log.bind(user='anonymous', some_key=23)
   >>> log = log.bind(user='hynek', another_key=42)
   >>> log.info('user.logged_in', happy=True)
   some_key=23 user='hynek' another_key=42 happy=True event='user.logged_in'

Please note that this example does *not* use standard library logging (but could so :ref:`easily <standard-library-lite>`).
The logger that's returned by ``structlog.get_logger()`` is *freely* :doc:`configurable <configuration>` and uses a simple :class:`~structlog.PrintLogger` by default.



For…

- …reasons why structured logging in general and structlog in particular are the way to go, consult :doc:`why`.
- …more realistic examples, peek into  :doc:`examples`.
- …getting started right away, jump straight into :doc:`getting-started`.

Since structlog avoids monkey-patching and events are fully free-form, you can start using it **today**!

User's Guide
------------

Basics
^^^^^^

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   why
   getting-started
   loggers
   configuration
   thread-local
   processors
   examples


Integration with Existing Systems
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

structlog can be used immediately with any existing logger.
However it comes with special wrappers for the Python standard library and Twisted that are optimized for their respective underlying loggers and contain less magic.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   standard-library
   twisted
   logging-best-practices


Advanced Topics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   custom-wrappers
   performance


Project Information
-------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   contributing
   license
   changelog


API Reference
-------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 4

   api


Indices and tables
==================

- :ref:`genindex`
- :ref:`modindex`
- :ref:`search`
