docs/why.rst, before:

====
Why…
====

…Structured Logging?
====================

      I believe the widespread use of format strings in logging is based on two presumptions:

      - The first level consumer of a log message is a human.
      - The programmer knows what information is needed to debug an issue.

      I believe these presumptions are **no longer correct** in server side software.

      ---`Paul Querna <https://paul.querna.org/articles/2011/12/26/log-for-machines-in-json/>`_

Structured logging means that you don't write hard-to-parse and hard-to-keep-consistent prose in your log.
Instead, you log *events* that happen in a *context* of key/value pairs.


…structlog?
===========

Easier Logging
==============

You can stop writing prose and start thinking in terms of an event that happens in the context of key/value pairs:

.. code-block:: pycon

   >>> from structlog import get_logger
   >>> log = get_logger()
   >>> log.info("key_value_logging", out_of_the_box=True, effort=0)
   2020-11-18 09:17.09 [info     ] key_value_logging    effort=0 out_of_the_box=True

Each log entry is a meaningful dictionary instead of an opaque string now!


Data Binding
============

Since log entries are dictionaries, you can start binding and re-binding key/value pairs to your loggers to ensure they are present in every following logging call:

.. code-block:: pycon

   >>> log = log.bind(user="anonymous", some_key=23)
   >>> log = log.bind(user="hynek", another_key=42)
   >>> log.info("user.logged_in", happy=True)
   2020-11-18 09:18.28 [info     ] user.logged_in    another_key=42 happy=True some_key=23 user=hynek

You can also bind key/value pairs to :doc:`context variables <contextvars>` that look global, but are local to your thread or *asyncio* context (i.e. often your request).


Powerful Pipelines
==================

Each log entry goes through a `processor pipeline <https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/processors.html>`_ that is just a chain of functions that receive a dictionary and return a new dictionary that gets fed into the next function.
That allows for simple but powerful data manipulation:

.. code-block:: python

   def timestamper(logger, log_method, event_dict):
       """Add a timestamp to each log entry."""
       event_dict["timestamp"] = time.time()
       return event_dict

There are `plenty of processors <https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/api.html#module-structlog.processors>`_ for most common tasks coming with ``structlog``:

- Collectors of `call stack information <https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/api.html#structlog.processors.StackInfoRenderer>`_ ("How did this log entry happen?"),
- …and `exceptions <https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/api.html#structlog.processors.format_exc_info>`_ ("What happened‽").
- Unicode encoders/decoders.
- Flexible `timestamping <https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/api.html#structlog.processors.TimeStamper>`_.


Formatting
==========

``structlog`` is completely flexible about *how* the resulting log entry is emitted.
Since each log entry is a dictionary, it can be formatted to **any** format:

- A colorful key/value format for `local development <https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/development.html>`_,
- `JSON <https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/api.html#structlog.processors.JSONRenderer>`_ for easy parsing,
- or some standard format you have parsers for like nginx or Apache httpd.

Internally, formatters are processors whose return value (usually a string) is passed into loggers that are responsible for the output of your message.
``structlog`` comes with multiple useful formatters out-of-the-box.


Output
======

``structlog`` is also flexible with the final output of your log entries:

- A **built-in** lightweight printer like in the examples above.
  Easy to use and fast.
- Use the **standard library**'s or **Twisted**'s logging modules for compatibility.
  In this case ``structlog`` works like a wrapper that formats a string and passes them off into existing systems that won't know that ``structlog`` even exists.
  Or the other way round: ``structlog`` comes with a ``logging`` formatter that allows for processing third party log records.
- Don't format it to a string at all!
  ``structlog`` passes you a dictionary and you can do with it whatever you want.
  Reported use cases are sending them out via network or saving them in a database.


Highly Testable
===============

``structlog`` is thoroughly tested and we see it as our duty to help you to achieve the same in *your* applications.
That's why it ships with a `bunch of helpers <https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/testing.html>`_ to introspect your application's logging behavior with little-to-no boilerplate.

Commit message:

Add string interpolation to FilteringBoundLogger (#454)
* Add string interpolation to FilteringBoundLogger

* Add to getting started

* Mention interpolation in why

docs/why.rst, after:

====
Why…
====

…Structured Logging?
====================

      I believe the widespread use of format strings in logging is based on two presumptions:

      - The first level consumer of a log message is a human.
      - The programmer knows what information is needed to debug an issue.

      I believe these presumptions are **no longer correct** in server side software.

      ---`Paul Querna <https://paul.querna.org/articles/2011/12/26/log-for-machines-in-json/>`_

Structured logging means that you don't write hard-to-parse and hard-to-keep-consistent prose in your log.
Instead, you log *events* that happen in a *context* of key/value pairs.


…structlog?
===========

Easier Logging
==============

You can stop writing prose and start thinking in terms of an event that happens in the context of key/value pairs:

.. code-block:: pycon

   >>> from structlog import get_logger
   >>> log = get_logger()
   >>> log.info("key_value_logging", out_of_the_box=True, effort=0)
   2020-11-18 09:17:09 [info     ] key_value_logging    effort=0 out_of_the_box=True

Each log entry is a meaningful dictionary instead of an opaque string now!

That said, ``structlog`` is not taking anything away from you.
You can still use string interpolation:

.. code-block:: pycon

   >>> log.info("Hello, %s!", "world")
   2022-10-10 07:19:25 [info     ] Hello, world!


Data Binding
============

Since log entries are dictionaries, you can start binding and re-binding key/value pairs to your loggers to ensure they are present in every following logging call:

.. code-block:: pycon

   >>> log = log.bind(user="anonymous", some_key=23)
   >>> log = log.bind(user="hynek", another_key=42)
   >>> log.info("user.logged_in", happy=True)
   2020-11-18 09:18:28 [info     ] user.logged_in    another_key=42 happy=True some_key=23 user=hynek

You can also bind key/value pairs to :doc:`context variables <contextvars>` that look global, but are local to your thread or *asyncio* context (i.e. often your request).


Powerful Pipelines
==================

Each log entry goes through a `processor pipeline <https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/processors.html>`_ that is just a chain of functions that receive a dictionary and return a new dictionary that gets fed into the next function.
That allows for simple but powerful data manipulation:

.. code-block:: python

   def timestamper(logger, log_method, event_dict):
       """Add a timestamp to each log entry."""
       event_dict["timestamp"] = time.time()
       return event_dict

There are `plenty of processors <https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/api.html#module-structlog.processors>`_ for most common tasks coming with ``structlog``:

- Collectors of `call stack information <https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/api.html#structlog.processors.StackInfoRenderer>`_ ("How did this log entry happen?"),
- …and `exceptions <https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/api.html#structlog.processors.format_exc_info>`_ ("What happened‽").
- Unicode encoders/decoders.
- Flexible `timestamping <https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/api.html#structlog.processors.TimeStamper>`_.


Formatting
==========

``structlog`` is completely flexible about *how* the resulting log entry is emitted.
Since each log entry is a dictionary, it can be formatted to **any** format:

- A colorful key/value format for `local development <https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/development.html>`_,
- `JSON <https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/api.html#structlog.processors.JSONRenderer>`_ for easy parsing,
- or some standard format you have parsers for like nginx or Apache httpd.

Internally, formatters are processors whose return value (usually a string) is passed into loggers that are responsible for the output of your message.
``structlog`` comes with multiple useful formatters out-of-the-box.


Output
======

``structlog`` is also flexible with the final output of your log entries:

- A **built-in** lightweight printer like in the examples above.
  Easy to use and fast.
- Use the **standard library**'s or **Twisted**'s logging modules for compatibility.
  In this case ``structlog`` works like a wrapper that formats a string and passes them off into existing systems that won't know that ``structlog`` even exists.
  Or the other way round: ``structlog`` comes with a ``logging`` formatter that allows for processing third party log records.
- Don't format it to a string at all!
  ``structlog`` passes you a dictionary and you can do with it whatever you want.
  Reported use cases are sending them out via network or saving them in a database.


Highly Testable
===============

``structlog`` is thoroughly tested and we see it as our duty to help you to achieve the same in *your* applications.
That's why it ships with a `bunch of helpers <https://www.structlog.org/en/stable/testing.html>`_ to introspect your application's logging behavior with little-to-no boilerplate.
